The OAuth 2.0 authorization framework enables a third-party application to obtain limited access to an HTTP service, either on behalf of a resource owner by orchestrating an approval interaction between the resource owner and the HTTP service, or by allowing the third-party application to obtain access on its own behalf.

1. OAuth2 Roles
OAuth2 defines four roles:

resource owner:
Could be you. An entity capable of granting access to a protected resource. When the resource owner is a person, it is referred to as an end-user.
resource server:
The server hosting the protected resources, capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens.
client:
An application making protected resource requests on behalf of the resource owner and with its authorization. It could be a mobile app asking your permission to access your Facebook feeds, a REST client trying to access REST API, a web site [Stackoverflow e.g.] providing an alternative login option using Facebook account.
authorization server:
The server issuing access tokens to the client after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization.

2. OAuth2 Authorization Grant types
An authorization grant is a credential representing the resource owner’s authorization (to access its protected resources) used by the client to obtain an access token. The specification defines four grant types:
  >authorization code
  >implicit
  >resource owner's password credentials.
  >client authorization.

3. OAuth2 Tokens
Tokens are implementation specific random strings, generated by the authorization server and are issued when the client requests them.

Access Token : Sent with each request, usually valid for a very short life time [an hour e.g.]
Refresh Token : Mainly used to get a new access token, not sent with each request, usually lives longer than access token.  
  
For any sort of Security implementation, ranging from Basic authentication to a full fledged OAuth2 implementation, HTTPS is a must have. Without HTTPS, no matter what your implementation is, security is vulnerable to be compromised.